# CS-3345-Assignment-2

### This Assignment 2 LinkedQueue.java file is based on the DoublyLinkedList.java file back in Assignment 1. Similar to the QueueInterface.java, the LinkedQueue file is an implementation of the QueueInterface file, which is how it happens to appear derived but with more specifications. To connect to the DoublyLinkedList file, first off, a constructor is used to create a DoublyLinkedList object before becoming more specific about the methods in LinkedQueue.java for dequeing, enqueing, peeking, and other methods to be called on in the main program.

### After the LinkedQueue.java file was created, the Plane.java file is created, solely for being the setter, getter, and constructor of the Plane object, using the arrivalTime parameter, which will eventually be used for the main program.

### In the main program, working together with all the other files, this is where the AirportSimulation.java happens. Firstly, double, int, and boolean variables are initialized and declared. However, for some of the values, either a parseInt() or parseDouble() was used because conversion between data types was required. Second, a loop for the simulation duration is used, and two random double numbers are generated to queue new planes. To enqueue, the random numbers are compared against the landingRate and the takeOffRate, and if they are less than the rate, then a plane is enqueued. Thirdly, multiple conditionals are used. The boolean is used to check if the runway is busy, and if not, the program proceeds with checking if the queues are empty, and if the queues are not empty, this allows for dequeing of planes, therefore calculating and modifying the wait times and incrementing the number of planes that have landed or taken off. Otherwise, if the runway is busy, then the runway timer decrements until 0. After all the conditionals and the for loop, the total queue length gets incremented and so does the current time. Finally, the statistics for how many planes have landed or taken off, the average wait times, and the queue length are printed, but with conditionals that allow for efficient calculation and printing.
